Let's start with the first exercise here, of course we want to execute a function here so I will add
the v-on directive to listen to a user event first, I then pass the argument after the colon which is
the name of the event I want to listen to
and that's the click event here. Now
between the quotation marks,
I specify the code I want to execute on each click and here, as I just said, I want to execute a function,
so down there I'll add it my methods and I will name it alert me, just like that.
Now in this function, all I'll do is I will throw an alert where I say Alert, really straightforward
and now I can use this alert me function from down there to pass a settable reference here in the
quotation marks as the value for this directive binding.
If I now hit control enter and click on show alert, we see this alert over here,
so this is now working, this is the first task. In the second one, I now want to listen to a different
event on a different element on this input here, the user is of course able to type something here
and I want to listen to each keystroke the user does,
so again with v-on, I can set up such a listener, I can bind an event to some code I want to execute
when the event occurs and the event I want to listen to is keydown, I could also use keyup. Keydown is
as the name implies fired whenever the key is pressed before it is released, keyup would be pressed after
it is released,
choose whatever suits your needs. Here I'll choose keydown and in there, I want to change the value,
note this, initially it's set to an empty string.
I can update it by simply saying value equals and then event, $event to be precise because
this is this reserved
name vuejs creates for us, this reserved variable which stores the default event object automatically
created for us by javascript which holds valuable information like the target of the event.
Now the target clearly is this input field and since an input field has a value property,
this is where I can get the input value from.
So on my event object, I can access the target of the event, again the input element here and then the
value
and with that, I'm assigning the value of the target of this event to this value property down there.
I could have of course also called a function where I pass $event as an argument
and use it in the function body to do the same.
If I now hit control enter, let's output something here,
as you can see, the value gets updated below both inputs because this is where I output it with string interpolation
and this is the behavior I was looking for here. In the third exercise,
I want to take the second one and adjust it to only fire if the key we press is entered.
So I still want to be able to enter something here, I'm not restricting this to enter but I only want to
update the value which will then be output via string interpolation whenever we hit the enter key, so
that we don't update it upon every keystroke.
We listen for every keystroke but we then decide should we do something or shouldn't we do something.
So in order to do this, I will generally copy the same code as up here, as we want the same functionality
but of course that won't restrict it to the enter key.
I can restrict it by adding a key modifier here, with the dot
I add such a modifier and then the name for the enter key simply is enter,
this tells vuejs only fire the code or execute the code between the quotation marks
if we have a have a keydown event and b very important, the key which is down is the enter key.
With that if I hit control enter, you can see on the upper input where I don't have this check, I can still
type and see the value is reflected but down there, we don't see an updating but as soon as I do hit enter,
it changes to Max and Maximilien and so on.
This is of course is a very useful behavior because oftentimes, you want to listen to every keystroke but
not update a value up on every keystroke,
you only want to update it once the user kind of hits enter to tell you well I'm done editing it, take
the value
for example. These were the three exercises on events.
Again, very concise but should get you really started with it showing you how to listen to events with
the v-on directive, how to call functions, how to use the event object,
again you would have been able to pass this to a function as an argument and then how to also use modifiers
like the key modifier here to control when specifically your event occurs. With that,
let's move on to the next lectures.